#summary Getting Started Guide
#labels Featured,GettingStarted

== What is GWT-Unite? ==

Opera Unite is a personal web server platform built into the next version of the Opera Browser (V10.10).  Services for the WebServer are built using JavaScript which, while being a good choice for a browser, doesn't lend well to building big applications.  GWT unite allows you to build Opera Unite services using GWT, and hence build your services directly in Java rather than JavaScript.

== Requirements ==
 * GWT-Unite was developed against GWT version 1.7
 * The documentation for GWT Unite assumes some experience with GWT
 * Eclipse IDE is required in order to work with the examples

== Opera Unite Supported API's ==
The current version of GWT Unite supports the following API's:
	* Core Opera Unite Library
	* Opera O/I File
	* Markuper API *_(in progress)_*

== Eclipse Setup ==
When working with GWT projects inside Eclipse I always find it easier to have a User library which points to the GWT files.  With this in mind, a User library called GWT is required in order to work with the GWT-Unite example projects.

The following steps show how to set up this library:

 # Go to Windows -> Preferences and search for User Libraries
 # Click New and enter GWT as the library name
 # Click on the new library and click Add Jars
 # Go to your GWT 1.7 installation and select:
	* gwt-dev-[windows|unix].jar
	* gwt-servlet.jar
	* gwt-user.jar

== Compiling and running the examples ==
As with any library/framework, it's always easier to understand with a quick example.  Here's how to compile the example services (and get a framework develop your own services).

Importing the Examples project :
	# Download the GWTUniteExamples project zip
	# File -> Import..
	# Existing Projects Into Workspace
	# Archive File -> GWTUniteExamples.zip

Compiling the Hello World Service :
	# Right click on build-helloworld.xml
	# Select Run As -> Ant Build
	# This will build dist/GWTUniteHelloWorld.us
	# Drag this file onto your Opera 10.10 installation to install it
	# The browser page will show "Hello World"